Add xoak example (#44)
NCAR/esds: posts/multiple_index_xarray_xoak.md

---
author: Max Grover
date: 2021-4-23
tags: xarray, xoak, index
---

> # Dealing with Multi-Indexing Coordinates and the Power of Xoak

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Indexing curvilinear and unstructured grids with the Power of Xoak
```

This week, there a post within the Zulip regarding how to deal with indexing [CAM-SE](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1029/2017MS001257) data. The tricky part here is that is an unstructured grid, where there is only one column to the data, `ncol`.

> Using the [Multiple-level indexing documentation](http://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/indexing.html#multi-level-indexing) within Xarray didn't seem to help... so what other options are there?

Reviewer: Let's add the repr from `/glade/work/yeager/iHesp/fredc_data/B1850/B.E.13.B1850C5.ne120_t12.sehires38.003.sunway_02.cam.h.PSL.002101.050112.nc` here. You can use `xr.set_options(display_style="text")` to get a text version.

> This is a situation where using [Xoak](https://xoak.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) comes in handy. Xoak is an xarray extension, or add-on, which makes dealing with these irregular dimensions easier. It utilizes [SciPy's cKDTree adaptor](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.spatial.cKDTree.html).

Reviewer: "Xoak provides data structures, "indexes", that enable fast nearest-neighbour lookups on a variety of grids. It can use a variety of tree structures..."

> There a few greate examples on their documentation including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There a few great examples on their documentation including:
```
